{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green24\blue24;\red255\green255\blue255;\red10\green10\blue10;
\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12549\c12549\c12549;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c3922\c3922\c3922;
\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Age: subject age in years. Data collected through initial inclusion/exclusion study questionnaire.\
\
Gender: subject gender is either Man or Woman. Data collected through initial inclusion/exclusion study questionnaire.\
\
BMI: body mass index measures a person\'92s weight in relation to their height to estimate the amount of body fat one carries. \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Enrolled patients were subjected to a full baseline evaluation in which height (meters) and weight (kilograms) data were gathered. BMI was then calculated through \cf4 BMI = weight (kg) / [height (m)]\'b2.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
Smoking: past history and current status of smoking tendencies. \'93ex\'94 indicates subject has smoked before this study, and does not smoke currently. \'93no\'94 indicates subject has never smoked before this study, and does not smoke currently. \'931\'94 indicates subject currently smokes. Data was collected through full baseline evaluation of subjects in which subjects were asked about smoking history.\
\
Hypertension: high blood pressure previously diagnosed by a physician. Data was collected through full baseline evaluation of subjects in which subjects were asked about heart health.\
\
Diab: indicates if subject is diagnosed with diabetes (either Type 1 or 2). \
\
Stableangina: data collection for stable engine (either yes or no) was determine initially through baseline evaluation of subjects. They must have gotten a diagnoses by a physician in regards to any abnormality.\
\
PreviousMI: previous myocardial infarction data for each subject is collected based upon past medical history gathered during baseline evaluation for each subject. A single or multiple occurrence of myocardial infarction is still classified as \'93yes\'94.\
\
PAD: peripheral artery disease diagnoses data, either yes or no, is determine based upon baseline evaluation. The diagnoses must have been done by a physician. \cf5 Claudication indicates symptoms present in lower extremities, not generalized in body.\cf0 \
\
Heartfailure: heart failure symptoms for each subject is collected based upon past medical history gathered during baseline evaluation for each subject. This diagnoses must be done by a physician in the past. \
\
PrevstrokeTIA: previous \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Transient Ischemic Attack (TIA)\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  for each subject is collected based upon past medical history gathered during baseline evaluation for each subject. A single or multiple occurrence of TIA is still classified as \'93yes\'94.\
\
bio_AST: \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) was collected during blood work as part of the subject\'92s pre-ablation work. Serves as a liver biomarker.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
bio_ALT: \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) was collected during blood work as part of the subject\'92s pre-ablation work. \cf2 Serves as a liver biomarker.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
bio_GGT: Gamma \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Glutamyl transferase (GT) was collected during blood work as part of the subject\'92s pre-ablation work. \cf2 Serves as a liver and kidney biomarker.\cf2 \
\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
bio_LDL: \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol was calculated using Friedewald\'92s formula:\'a0LDL-cholesterol\'a0=\'a0total-cholesterol \'96 HDL-cholesterol\'a0\'96 (0.45xtriglycerides).\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
bio_HDL: Data was collected through a lipid panel workup \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
as part of the subject\'92s clinical routine.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
bio_TG: Data was collected through a lipid panel workup \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
as part of the subject\'92s clinical routine.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
bio_hEtGconc:\cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Hair samples were collected from participants as close to the scalp as possible. Only the first 3 cm of hair from the root were used (measured last 3 months of alcohol consumption). Society of Hair Testing guidelines: Below 7 pg/mg suggests abstinence or very low alcohol use. 7 pg/mg or higher suggests repeated alcohol consumption. 30 pg/mg or higher suggests excessive or chronic alcohol use. The study compared participants who had hEtG levels above and below the 7 pg/mg cut-off point. Coefficient of Variation) was 16% at 7 pg/mg, 8.3% at 33 pg/mg, and 6.2% at 267 pg/mg: measurement became more precise at higher concentrations.\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
cbio_EF: ejection fraction data collection measured through echocardiogram for each subject. \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Ejection Fraction = (End-Diastolic Volume - End-Systolic Volume) / End-Diastolic Volume x 100. Serves as cardiac biomarker.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
cbio_LAVmax_BSA: an echocardiogram procedure was conducted for each subject and maximum left atrium was measured \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
at the end of ventricular systole, just before the mitral valve opens. Data was collected with reference to body surface area (BSA). S\cf4 erves as cardiac biomarker.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
cbio_LAVmin_BSA: an echocardiogram procedure was conducted for each subject and maximum left atrium was measured \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
at the end of ventricular diastole, when the mitral valve has closed. Data was collected with reference to body surface area (BSA). \cf4 Serves as cardiac biomarker.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
Echo_reading: heart rhythm collected by the echocardiogram outputting either sinus rhythm (SR) or atrial fibrillation (AF) on the device itself.\
\
bio_hEtGgrp: Subjects\'92 alcohol concentration grouped into high or low. \cf5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Below 7 pg/mg suggests abstinence or very low alcohol use (\'93low\'94). 7 pg/mg or higher suggests repeated alcohol consumption (\'93high\'94).\
\
\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 GFR_category: \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
glomerular filtration rate is a test that measures how well your kidneys are filtering waste from your blood. Data was collected through a blood test conducted for sample subjects. Subject with higher than 90% have \'93High\'94 kidney function, 60-89% have \'93Moderate\'94 kidney function, 30-59% have \'93Low\'94 kidney function, and lower than 30% are \'93Severe\'94 conditions of kidney function.\
\
\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 log_cbio_BNP: \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
N-terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP)\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  biomarker data collected through bloodwork\cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 sample analyzed using immunoassays. Blood collection was pre-ablation \cf2 drawn from the femoral vein\cf4 . Data was log transformed due to right skew in histogram.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
log_cbio_ANP: \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Mid-regional fragment of pro atrial natriuretic peptide (MR-proANP) \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 biomarker data collected through bloodwork\cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 sample analyzed using immunoassays. Blood collection was pre-ablation \cf2 drawn from the femoral vein\cf4 . Serves as cardiac biomarker (heart muscle stretching). Data was log transformed due to right skew in histogram.\
\
EF_reflected: \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 cbio_EF data was reflected to create log transformation.\
\
log_ \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
EF_reflected: is the log transformation of cbio_EF due to left skew in data.}