{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red24\green24\blue24;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red10\green10\blue10;\red24\green24\blue24;\red46\green0\blue100;\red10\green10\blue10;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c12549\c12549\c12549;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c3922\c3922\c3922;\cssrgb\c12549\c12549\c12549;\cssrgb\c24314\c1961\c46667;\cssrgb\c3922\c3922\c3922;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15880\viewh15420\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Age: subject age in years. Data collected through initial inclusion/exclusion study questionnaire.\
\
Gender: subject gender is either Man or Woman. Data collected through initial inclusion/exclusion study questionnaire.\
\
Sagdiam: \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 sagittal abdominal diameter/\cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 anteroposterior abdominal diameter\cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 . Known as abdominal height, this measures an indicator of visceral fat. Data collected through \cf4 \cb1 \strokec4 Anthropometric approach after \cf2 \cb3 \strokec2 Questionnaire process filtered a group of subjects.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
BMI: body mass index measures a person\'92s weight in relation to their height to estimate the amount of body fat one carries. \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Enrolled patients were subjected to a full baseline evaluation in which height (meters) and weight (kilograms) data were gathered. BMI was then calculated through \cf5 \strokec5 BMI = weight (kg) / [height (m)]\'b2.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
Smoking: past history and current status of smoking tendencies. \'93ex\'94 indicates subject has smoked before this study, and does not smoke currently. \'93no\'94 indicates subject has never smoked before this study, and does not smoke currently. \'931\'94 indicates subject currently smokes. Data was collected through full baseline evaluation of subjects in which subjects were asked about smoking history.\
\
Hypertension: high blood pressure previously diagnosed by a physician. Data was collected through full baseline evaluation of subjects in which subjects were asked about heart health.\
\
Diab: indicates if subject is diagnosed with diabetes (either Type 1 or 2). \
\
Stableangina: data collection for stable engine (either yes or no) was determine initially through baseline evaluation of subjects. They must have gotten a diagnoses by a physician in regards to any abnormality.\
\
PreviousMI: previous myocardial infarction data for each subject is collected based upon past medical history gathered during baseline evaluation for each subject. A single or multiple occurrence of myocardial infarction is still classified as \'93yes\'94.\
\
PAD: peripheral artery disease diagnoses data, either yes or no, is determine based upon baseline evaluation. The diagnoses must have been done by a physician. \cf4 Claudication indicates symptoms present in lower extremities, not generalized in body.\cf0 \
\
Heartfailure: heart failure symptoms for each subject is collected based upon past medical history gathered during baseline evaluation for each subject. This diagnoses must be done by a physician in the past. \
\
GFR: \cf5 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 glomerular filtration rate is a test that measures how well your kidneys are filtering waste from your blood. Data was collected through a blood test conducted for sample subjects.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
PrevstrokeTIA: previous \cf5 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Transient Ischemic Attack (TIA)\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0  for each subject is collected based upon past medical history gathered during baseline evaluation for each subject. A single or multiple occurrence of TIA is still classified as \'93yes\'94.\
\
CHA2DS2VASc: transformed data from other variables; process of transformation was not clearly documented in the paper.\
\
BPsyst: Systolic portion (mmHg) of blood pressure was collected during the echocardiogram procedure for each subject. \
\
BPdiast: Distolic portion (mmHg) of blood pressure was collected during the echocardiogram procedure for each subject.\
\
AST: \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Aspartate aminotransferase\cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0  (AST) was collected during blood work as part of the subject\'92s pre-ablation work.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
ALT: \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) was collected during blood work as part of the subject\'92s \cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 pre-ablation work.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
@GT: \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Glutamyl transferase (GT) \cf6 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 was collected during blood work as part of the subject\'92s \cf6 pre-ablation work.\
\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
KOL: This variable was not clearly documented in the paper.\
\
LDL: \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol was calculated using Friedewald\'92s formula:\'a0LDL-cholesterol\'a0=\'a0total-cholesterol \'96 HDL-cholesterol\'a0\'96 (0.45xtriglycerides).\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
HDL: Data was collected through a lipid panel workup \cf6 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
as part of the subject\'92s clinical routine.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
TG: Data was collected through a lipid panel workup \cf6 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
as part of the subject\'92s clinical routine.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
Alcoholconsumption_units: \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Patients were interviewed about their weekly alcohol consumption, and the reported amount of alcohol was translated into units. In this study, one unit corresponded to eight grams of alcohol, ingested in the form of beer, wine or spirits. High consumption was defined as more than 14 or 9 units/week in men and women [{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0215121#pone.0215121.ref019"}}{\fldrslt \cf7 \strokec7 19}}], respectively, and low consumption as consumption below this level, including teetotallers.\
\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
hEtG_concentration:\cf4 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Hair samples were collected from participants as close to the scalp as possible. Only the first 3 cm of hair from the root were used (measured last 3 months of alcohol consumption). Society of Hair Testing guidelines: Below 7 pg/mg suggests abstinence or very low alcohol use. 7 pg/mg or higher suggests repeated alcohol consumption. 30 pg/mg or higher suggests excessive or chronic alcohol use. The study compared participants who had hEtG levels above and below the 7 pg/mg cut-off point. Coefficient of Variation) was 16% at 7 pg/mg, 8.3% at 33 pg/mg, and 6.2% at 267 pg/mg: measurement became more precise at higher concentrations.\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
BNP: \cf8 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
N-terminal pro B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP)\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0  biomarker data collected through bloodwork\cf5 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5  sample analyzed using immunoassays. Blood collection was pre-ablation \cf2 \strokec2 drawn from the femoral vein\cf5 \strokec5 .\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
ANP: \cf5 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Mid-regional fragment of pro atrial natriuretic peptide (MR-proANP) \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 biomarker data collected through bloodwork\cf8 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 sample analyzed using immunoassays. Blood collection was pre-ablation \cf6 drawn from the femoral vein\cf8 .\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
EF: ejection fraction data collection measured through echocardiogram for each subject. \cf5 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 Ejection Fraction = (End-Diastolic Volume - End-Systolic Volume) / End-Diastolic Volume x 100.\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
LAVmax_BSA: an echocardiogram procedure was conducted for each subject and maximum left atrium was measured \cf5 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec5 at the end of ventricular systole, just before the mitral valve opens. Data was collected with reference to body surface area (BSA).\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
LAVmin_BSA: an echocardiogram procedure was conducted for each subject and maximum left atrium was measured \cf8 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
at the end of ventricular diastole, when the mitral valve has closed. Data was collected with reference to body surface area (BSA).\cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
Rhythmatlab: heart rhythm collected by the echocardiogram was analyzed through Matlab script to determine sinus rhythm (SR) or atrial fibrillation (AF).\
\
RhythmEcho: heart rhythm collected by the echocardiogram outputting either sinus rhythm (SR) or atrial fibrillation (AF) on the device itself.\
\
hEtG_analyzable: Determines if the \'93hEtG_concentration\'94 was analyzable or not. If no data was collected for the subject in the \'93hEtG_concentration\'94, hEtG_analyzable is classified as \'93\cf4 hEtG not analyzed\'94.\cf0 \
}